---
layout: post
title: Fivetran
category: data-platform
tags: core-concept, data-integration
---


Fivetran is a cloud-based, fully managed data integration service that automates the extraction, transformation, and loading (ETL) process of data from various sources into a data warehouse. It allows users to centralize their data from multiple applications, databases, and other sources without writing or maintaining code. Here are some features and characteristics that make Fivetran unique:
- **Zero Maintenance**: Fivetran offers automated connectors that require no ongoing maintenance. This contrasts with traditional ETL solutions, which may require manual interventions and updates.
- **Pre-Built Connectors**: Fivetran has many pre-built connectors for various data sources, including SaaS applications, databases, event trackers, etc. This makes integration seamless for businesses.
- **Schema Management**: Fivetran automatically manages schema changes in the source and adjusts in the data warehouse accordingly. If a new column is added to a source, Fivetran automatically adds it to the warehouse.
- **Historical Data**: The platform offers a complete historical sync of data. This ensures that users have a comprehensive view of their past and present data.
- **Normalization**: Data from SaaS applications often come in a nested or complex format. Fivetran can automatically normalize this data, making it more accessible and ready for analysis.
- **Data Resilience**: It provides features like automatic data recovery and data integrity checks to ensure data is always accurate and up-to-date.
Real-time or Scheduled Sync: Fivetran allows users to choose between near real-time data sync or scheduled updates based on their business requirements.
- **Elasticity and Scalability**: Being cloud-based, Fivetran can handle large volumes of data, and its infrastructure can scale as needed without users intervening.
- **Security**: Fivetran emphasizes security with features like end-to-end encryption, compliance certifications, and audit trails.

What sets Fivetran apart from some traditional ETL tools is its emphasis on automation, cloud-native approach, and the ability to integrate with many sources without deep technical intervention rapidly. This makes it especially useful for businesses looking to set up a data pipeline quickly and without heavy investments in development or infrastructure.

Links:
- [Product Website](https://www.fivetran.com/)
- [Youtube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/@Fivetran/videos)
- [Book: Automating Data Integration with Fivetran](https://www.amazon.in/Automating-Data-Integration-Fivetran-destination/dp/1801079579)